#LyX 2.2 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 508
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Flex URL
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout

https://nxr.northwestern.edu/research/robotic-manipulation
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset CommandInset href
LatexCommand href
name "Levyn Lynch"
target "https://nxr.northwestern.edu/research/robotic-manipulation"

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Problem:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Given 2 round bodies (discs) in 2D space, and several fingers are available.
 We want to immobilize the bodies by these fingers.
 The point of interest is a configuration where bodies touch and this way
 replace finger constraints.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
These 2 bodies can be described in 4D configuration space.
 We want to find a fingers position so the desired configuration will be
 bound: any vector of 
\emph on
c-space
\emph default
 will pierce a adjacent 
\emph on
c-obstacle
\emph default
.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
How many fingers are needed to fix a body? 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Describing the problem in a 
\emph on
c-space
\emph default
, there are c-obstacles of 2 types: between a body and another body 
\begin_inset Formula $CO_{Bij}$
\end_inset

, and between a body and a finger 
\begin_inset Formula $CO_{F_{i}B_{j}}$
\end_inset

.
 In a combined 
\emph on
c-space
\emph default
 for both bodies 
\begin_inset Formula $CO_{Bij}$
\end_inset

's are constant, while in separate 
\emph on
c-spaces
\emph default
 (for each body) 
\begin_inset Formula $CO_{Bij}$
\end_inset

's depend on each body configuration.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The c-obstacle defines a region of impossible configurations, with a boundary
 which is a set of configurations with a contact (body to body, or body
 to finger).
 We wish to find a configuration of 2 bodies and position of the fingers
 that will result in fixation of the bodies: a point in 
\emph on
c-space
\emph default
 which lies on the boundary of 
\emph on
c-obstacles
\emph default
 (the amount of fingers needed for this will be discussed), in a way that
 will prevent any possible movement - arbitrary vector from this point should
 pierce a 
\emph on
c-obstacle
\emph default
.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In order to achieve that we define an inward normal to the c-obstacle boundary
 at the point of the contact.
 Any vector which, being projected on this inward normal vector, has a positive
 length represents a infeasible change of the configuration.
 By finding such normal vectors that will result in positive span of the
 configuration 
\series bold
\emph on
q
\series default
\emph default
 we will obtain a fixture of the bodies.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
3 
\begin_inset Formula $\mathbb{R}^{2}$
\end_inset

 vectors can positively span a 
\begin_inset Formula $\mathbb{R}^{2}$
\end_inset

 space by forming a convex hull around the origin (a triangle).
 Same goes for 
\begin_inset Formula $\mathbb{R}^{3}$
\end_inset

 space with 4 vectors forming a tetrahedron.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In N dimensional space A :
\begin_inset Formula $\mathbb{R}^{N}$
\end_inset

, a unit vector with dimensions 
\begin_inset Formula $N\times1$
\end_inset

 will have 
\begin_inset Formula $N-1$
\end_inset

 degrees of freedom, and being a normal to a plane defines a plane orientation.
 The plane is a subspace of 
\begin_inset Formula $\mathbb{R}^{N-1}$
\end_inset

: B.
 Any vector in A which lies within B 
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
